39 anchor (#66)
Virtual-Viking-Longship/Ship-Annotations: annotations/anchor.md

**_anchor_** (English); _anker_ (Danish); _Anker_ (German)

> _**akkeri** n., pl. akkerum_ (Old Norse) [citations: [prose](https://onp.ku.dk/onp/onp.php?o1281)/[poetry](https://lexiconpoeticum.org/m.php?p=lemma&i=2907)]  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_**akkeri**_ n., pl. _akkeri_ (Old Norse) [citations: [prose](https://onp.ku.dk/onp/onp.php?o1281)/[poetry](https://lexiconpoeticum.org/m.php?p=lemma&i=2907)]  
```

An object designed to prevent or slow the drift of a ship, by gripping the solid seabed under the body of water.  

<div align="center">
  

>   ![anchor from Ladby ship](../images/Anchor_Ladby.png)  

Reviewer: We don't have permission to use this image. I need to take them out of the repo.

We should maybe use [the one from Oseberg here](https://www.nb.no/items/URN:NBN:no-nb_digibok_2019111248002?page=335) and maybe also the separate image of the stock from Nicolaysen Plate IV Figure 17

  Anchor and Anchor Chain from Ladby ship (Nicolaysen Pl. V, Fig. 1)

</div>

> Anchors were critical for controlling and docking Viking ships, especially in storms or raids. Anchors were used when camping aboard a ship at night or when preparing for stealthy attacks (Jesh 166). It is believed that viking anchors were made of iron or a composite of wood, stone, and rope. The former would have been expensive and used on large ships while the latter would be more affordable and used on small ships (Crumlin-Pederson, 146). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anchors were critical for controlling and docking Viking ships, especially in storms or during raids. Anchors were used when camping aboard a ship at night or when preparing for stealthy attacks (Jesch 166). It is believed that Viking Age anchors were made of iron or a composite of wood, stone, and rope. The former would have been expensive and used on large ships while the latter would be more affordable and used on small ships (Crumlin-Pederson, 146). 
```

---

>   Jesch, Judith. _Ships and Men in the Late Viking Age: The Vocabulary of Runic Inscriptions and Skaldic Verse._ NED-New edition. Woodbridge, Suffolk, UK ; Rochester, NY: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Jesch, Judith. _Ships and Men in the Late Viking Age: The Vocabulary of Runic Inscriptions and Skaldic Verse._ (Boydell & Brewer, 2001). https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.7722/j.ctt163tb4f
```

Reviewer: Moving to one line and removing place of publication, since no longer advised in Chicago 18

> Boydell & Brewer, 2001. https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.7722/j.ctt163tb4f.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
